ARROW-13712: Reading and Writing Compressed Data (#87)
apache/arrow-cookbook: python/source/io.rst

.. testoutput::

    {'a': [1, 3, 5, 7], 'b': [2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0], 'c': [1, 2, 3, 4]}

Writing Compressed Data
=======================

> Arrow provides support for writing files in compressed format,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Arrow provides support for writing files in compressed formats,
```

> both for formats that provide it natively like Parquet or Feather,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
both for formats that provide compression natively like Parquet or Feather,
```

> and for formats that don't support it out of the box like CSV.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and for formats that don't support compression out of the box like CSV.
```

Given a table:

.. testcode::

    table = pa.table([
        pa.array([1, 2, 3, 4, 5])
    ], names=["numbers"])

> Writing it compressed to parquet or feather requires passing the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Writing it compressed to Parquet or Feather requires passing the
```

> Writing it compressed to parquet or feather requires passing the

Reviewer 2: For Parquet passing the argument is not actually "required", since we use compression by default (using snappy). You can still use the keyword to change the default compression strategy, though.

``compression`` argument to the :func:`pyarrow.feather.write_feather` and
:func:`pyarrow.parquet.write_table` functions:

.. testcode::

    pa.feather.write_feather(table, "compressed.feather",
                             compression="lz4")
    pa.parquet.write_table(table, "compressed.parquet",
                           compression="lz4")

> You can refer to the two functions documentation for a complete

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can refer to each of those functions' documentation for a complete
```

> You can refer to the two functions documentation for a complete

Author: They are linked right before the code snippet, that's why I avoided relinking them again here

list of supported compression formats.

.. note::

    Arrow actually uses compression by default when writing

>     parquet or feather files. Feather is compressed using ``lz4``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Parquet or Feather files. Feather is compressed using ``lz4``
```

    by default and Parquet uses ``snappy`` by default.

For formats that don't support compression natively, like CSV,
it's possible to save compressed data using
:class:`pyarrow.CompressedOutputStream`:

.. testcode::

    with pa.CompressedOutputStream("compressed.csv.gz", "gzip") as out:
        pa.csv.write_csv(table, out)

This requires decompressing the file when reading it back,
which can be done using :class:`pyarrow.CompressedInputStream`
as explained in the next recipe.

Reading Compressed Data
=======================

Arrow provides support for reading compressed files,
both for formats that provide it natively like Parquet or Feather,

> and for formats that don't support it out of the box like CSV.

Reviewer: I was thinking this could be a tiny bit clearer, though I think the "external application" phrasing needs tweaking a bit.
```
Arrow provides support for reading compressed files,
both for formats that provide it natively like Parquet or Feather,
and for files in formats that don't support compression natively, 
like CSV, but have been compressed by an external application.
```

Author: :+1:

Reading compressed formats that have native support for compression
doesn't require any special handling. We can for example read back
the Parquet and Feather files we wrote in the previous recipe
simply invoking :meth:`pyarrow.feather.read_table` and
:meth:`pyarrow.parquet.read_table`:

.. testcode::

    table_feather = pa.feather.read_table("compressed.feather")
    print(table_feather)

.. testoutput::

    pyarrow.Table
    numbers: int64

.. testcode::

    table_parquet = pa.parquet.read_table("compressed.parquet")
    print(table_parquet)

.. testoutput::

    pyarrow.Table
    numbers: int64

Reading data from formats that don't have native support for
compression instead involves decompressing them before decoding them.

> This can be done using the :class:`pyarrow.CompressedInputStream` class

Reviewer 2: The `read_csv` docstring seems to indicate it will actually decompress by default if it recognizes the compressed file extension, so maybe we can show both ways?

Author: I wanted to provide a general example on how to read compressed data in generic format, `CSV` is just an excuse that by chance provides the compression out of the box, but the same could apply for example to `JSON Line-Delimited` in which case there is builtin support for compression.

That's why I went for explicit usage of `CompressedInputStream` (which will work with whatever format) even thought the example writes a CSV file.
